 
 
 
 
 
 
FINAL DESIGN REPORT 
23 April 2012 
AIRPLANE NAME - UDAAN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TEAM MEMBERS
 
Grant Rudd 
Jose Villavicencio 
Kushal Koirala 
Ngigalile Kyando 
Kazuhiro Umetani 
 
 
 
 
Nomenclature: 
α  Angle of attack  
α CL=0  Angle that lift coefficient is zero 
Cl  Airfoil lift coefficient  
Clα   Airfoil lift curve slope  
Cm   Airfoil pitching moment coefficient  
Cm0  Airfoil pitching moment coefficient at zero an gle of attack 
Cmα  Airfoil pitching moment curve slope 
CL max  Wing maximum lift coefficient  
CL α=0   Wing Lift coefficient at zero angle of att ack 
CD,0  Drag coefficient at zero angle of attack for womg 
W/S   Wing loading  
T/W   Thrustqtoqweight ratio  
AR   Aspect ratio  
V stall  Stall velocity  
V cruise  Cruise velocity  
V takeoff Takeoff velocity 
V landing Landing velocity 
W  Airplane weight 
e  Oswald efficiency factor 
CD
0  Zeroqlift drag 
η   Propeller efficiency 
V
Stall Altitude Stall speed at specific altitude 
VLO  Take off speed 
VT  Landing speed 
VMin PR  Minimum power required speed 
PA  Power available 
D  Propeller diameter 
W
P  Propulsion system weight 
VMax  Maximum speed 
VCruise  Cruise speed 
µr  Ground friction coefficient 
ϕ  Ground effect 
Q  Dynamic pressure 
TA  Thrust available 
TR  Thrust required 
RPM  Revolutions per minute 
ESC  Electronic speed controller 
KV  RPM per Volt 
V  Volt 
mAh  Milliampereqhour 
lb.  Pound 
oz.  Ounces 
ft.  Feet 
s  Seconds 
ft/s  Feet per second 
W  Watts 
In  Inches 
A  Ampere (Amp) 
CM,α  Pitching coefficient due to AOA 
CM,0  Pitching Moment Coefficient at Zero  
MAC       Mean Aerodynamic Chord 
AC  Aerodynamic Center of the wing 
δe  Elevator Deflection Angle 
δa  Aileron Deflection Angle 
δr  Rudder Deflection Angle 
CM,δe  Pitching coefficient due to Elevator Deflection 
Cy,βSide  Force Coefficient due to sideslip 
Cn,β           Yawing Coefficient due to Sideslip 
Cl,β  Rolling Coefficient due to Sideslip 
Cn,δr  Yawing Coefficient due to Rudder Deflection   
Cl,δr  Rolling Coefficient due to Rudder Deflection 
Cy,δr  Side Force Coefficient due to rudder deflection  
Cl,p          Rolling Coefficient due to Roll Rate 
Cn,p         Yawing Coefficient due to Roll Rate 
Cy,δa  Side Force Coefficient due to aileron deflection 
Cl,δa  Rolling Coefficient due to Aileron Deflection 
Cn,δa  Yawing Coefficient due to Aileron Deflection 
Cy,r  Side Force Coefficient due to yaw rate 
Cl,r           Rolling Coefficient due to Yaw rate  
Cn,r  Yawing Coefficient due to Yaw Rate 
S&C         Stability and Control 
SM           Static Margin 
Ksi  Kilo Pounds per Square Inches. 
Psi   Pounds per square Inches. 
V  Shear Force 
M  Internal Moment 
σ_max  Maximum Bending (Normal) Stress 
w
0  Uniformly Distributed load on the Wing. 
 
 
 
  
I)Mission Description: 
The mission is to design and validate an electric remotely controlled aircraft that will fly a specified course 
while carrying as many simulated bombs (tennis balls) as possible. The bombs will then be dropped on a  
specified target zone. 
The Course will be contained in a flying area with dimensions of 400 feet by 100 feet and an altitude 
ceiling of approximately 100 ft. The course will be oval in shape and one lap will consist of two 180 
degree turns a minimum of 300 ft apart. To complete the mission, a team must fly two laps, a third lap 
when the payload will be dropped, and then a final fourth lap before landing. The course layout can be  
found in figure I.1 . 
As mentioned previously, the payload of simulated bombs will be dropped on a target zone. Each aircraf t 
will be required to carry a minimum of 4 tennis balls, but there will be no maximum allowable amount. 
Dropping the payload will occur during the third lap. The target zone will be an area marked off with a size 
of 10 ft by 10 ft. Each tennis ball that first lands on the target will be scored. Those that roll or bounce on 
to the target after first contacting the ground will not be counted towards the competition score. Once the 
combat mission is complete, the plane must complete  the final lap before landing. The mission profile can 
be found in figure I.2 . 
One modification was made to the mission profile to  be more competitive. That change is to, during the  
combat lap, instead of a conventional bomber, a div e bomber will be utilized to drop the ordinance. Th is is 
mainly dictated by the small time over target and the small target zone. 
II) Competitive analysis
 
The equation for the DVC score is 
                       (Eqn.1) 
 
Using KlineqMcClintock method, sensitivities of individual parameters is calculated and reflected in Eqn.2 
                    (Eqn.2) 
The analysis determines that NBOT is the most impor tant, followed by WEFR 
The nominal values, uncertainties and sensitivity parameters are shown in table II.1 
 
Excel program is developed to calculate all possible flight scores with a change in any parameter and the 
results are shown in Figure II.1 
 
The plot shows that a small change in number of tennis balls can cause a huge impact in the % change o f 
the total score 
 
The second driving factor is the weight; a small % increase in weight can reduce the total score by a huge 
amount. 
 
25% change was applied to each parameter and the va riation of % change in parameters with the % 
change in total score is shown in Table II.2 
 
 
 
 











×+




=
A
G
C
V
WEFR
/glyph817BOTDVCSCR 2
( ) ( ) ( )333 10024. 1106 . 11042. 21936. 0446. 0 −−− ×+×+×+==WR
III) Concepts and Configurations Considered 
The first step of the aircraft selection process is to render various conceptual designs that are thought to 
be viable options for completing the specified miss ion1. Some concepts take many aspects of the mission 
into account, while others very few. During the screening process, this becomes evident, but all concepts 
are screened. They are as follows: 
Concept I (Figure III.1.A):  A blended fuselage wit h many complex curves, mid wing, tqtail, single 
tractor 
Concept II (Figure III.1.B): Mid wing, standard tai l configuration, single tractor, simple square design 
Concept III (Figure III.1.C): Twin tractor, BiqPlan e, standard tail configuration, rounded fuselage 
Concept IV (Figure III.1.D): PusherqPuller, midqwin g, twin boom, downward facing twin vertical tails 
Concept V (Figure III.1.E): Lifting Fuselage, twin boom, twin tractor, box tail 
Concept VI (Figure III.1.F): Twin tractor, twin boo m, box tail, central fuselage, high wing 
Concept VII (Figure III.1.G): Flying wing with empe nnage, twin boom, box tail, twin tractor 
Concept VIII (Figure III.1.H): Low wing, large cent ral fuselage, twin boom, box tail, single pusher  
 
IV) Concept Weighting and Selection Process:
 
Once initial concepts are submitted, all are subjected to a screening process. This does not assign a 
weight to each criteria, or a value to each concept’s score. Instead, each is scored with either a (0) , (+), (q
) as it compares to a given reference aircraft2. Once this is complete, those concepts can be further 
pursued further, altered and reqscreened, or dropped completely. Our screening results were as shown i n 
Figure IV.1 with those concepts being pursued further being shown in yellow. The reference aircraft is  a 
Bq27 Mitchell, a conventional bomber from WWII3. 
The next step is to score each concept. In this process, the criteria are narrowed to only include those 
deemed most important, and each is given a weight relative to importance. Also with this, each aircraft is 
ranked as compared to the reference aircraft on a scale of 1 to 5, with 5 being much better than the 
reference, 3 being equal to the reference, and 1 being much worse than the reference2. The highest 
weight value was given to the payload accessibility criteria, with the next highest criteria being durability. 
This is due to the mission specifying the need for a dive bomber. The scoring results are shown in Figure 
IV.2 with the final concept selection shown in yellow. 
 
V) Justification of Selected Concept 
The mission should be the driving factor influencing the selection of a concept5. The mission profile has 
been altered to support a more competitive concept by adding the requirement that the aircraft be able to 
withstand high gqloads experienced by a dive bomber.  This has a large influence on the scoring by 
adding durability, or the ability to survive sustained high gqloads and possibly rough landings, to the 
critical design parameters. The other necessity for a dive bomber and in some cases more important is 
the requirement to hold a large number of bombs tha t have the ability to be dropped easily and efficiently. 
The concept chosen was a ground up design. That is,  as a group the members started with the payload 
and took the best attributes from other concepts to combine them into a much more competitive design. 
The mission was not altered to fit the airplane, but instead the airplane modified to fit the mission. This 
approach created a mission oriented aircraft whose strengths are the critical aspects of the mission. 
Being a flying wing with a spar that carries completely through the structure, it results in a very durable 
aircraft able to withstand the gqloads experienced by a dive bomber. The most important trait of a bom ber 
is the bomb capacity. With a large centerqsection, this concept has the ability to carry a large numbe r of 
bombs internally. After furthering the analysis on the concept once it was selected, it became clear t hat 
several aspects of this design were underscored, namely: simplicity and ease of manufacture. This furt her 
proves that the current concept designed as a missi on oriented aircraft is the most viable concept. The 
final concept that was selected can be shown in figure V.1 as originally drafted. 
 
 
VI) Mission Derived Requirements and Constraints 
- Must carry at least 4 simulated bombs (tennis ball s) 
- Must be able to complete at least 4 full laps of t he course 
- Aircraft wingspan must be greater than or equal to  3 feet 
- Propulsion battery pack weight can be no more than  1 Lb. 
- Only NiMh batteries may be used to power the aircr aft 
- Current draw to the propulsion system is limited b y a 40 Amp slowqblow fuse 
- Must be able to withstand high GqLoads due to bomb ing method being a dive bomber 
- Must be able to handle wind gusts 5 
- Internal Payload 
 
Fundamental design and analysis results 
Section 1) Aerodynamics 
1.1) Conceptual Design 
 Conceptual aerodynamics design focuses on figuring  out the reasonable value of aerodynamic 
parameters (i.e. Aspect Ratio, Wing Span, Wing Surface Area, and Stall Velocity) and the wing airfoil.  
 
1.1.1) Aerodynamic Parameters 
1) Wing Surface Area: The wing area is the key para meter for the stall velocity, wing loading, 
and total lift. Increasing wing area increases total lift and decreases wing loading (W/S), which 
reduces stall velocity. This enables a lightweight propulsion system due to low thrustqtoqweight 
(T/W) requirements.  (Figure, 1.1 and Figure, 1.2) 
2) Wing Span: The wing span is a key parameter for aspect ratio (AR). Higher the wing span 
increases the aspect ratio. (Figure, 1.3) 
3) Aspect Ratio: The aspect ratio affects the C
Lα and CDα. According to Prendtl’s liftingqline 
equation7 and Helmond’s equation7, higher aspect ratio increases CLα and possibly decreases 
CDα. 
1.1.2) Decided Desired Value 
 During the process of deciding values, aspect ratio and surface area were the key parameters. 
Having the larger surface area decreases the stall velocity and increases the take off and cruise lift . 
However, it also makes aspect ratio lower. Having long wing span is not desired for the reason of 
structure.   Moreover, thickness ratio (t/c) is another important parameter due to the airplane model.  
According to Figure,1.3, there is no possibility to have more than 12ft
2 for surface area, and it is not 
desirable due to long wing span. So, the final decision is made by pushing down the t/c with tapering the 
wing.  
 
1.1.3) Airfoil Selection 
Important Criteria 
 Due to the selected design and the DVC mission, ou r wing airfoil needs to meet following 
requirement.  
• Thickness: According to our design, the tennis bal ls will be stored inside of the center section of the 
wing. This means that the chosen airfoil must have sufficient thickness throughout the chord to house 
the simulated bombs.  The airfoil thickness will directly affect wing span, surface area, and aspect 
ratio.  
• Bottom flatness: For the dropping mechanism, the b ottom of the airfoil needs to be flat for the 
construction of the payload doors. 
• Coefficients: Lift, drag, and moment coefficients must be reasonable for a high efficiency bomber 
 
 
 
Selection Criteria: 
Following parameters are used to select airfoil from a broad list of airfoils by NACA, SD, Eppler, MH, and 
GOE airfoils. These parameters are chosen to satisf y aerodynamics, S&C, and structural requirements 
and constraints. XFOIL 172, a 2D panel method code,  is used for getting the coefficients data. 
• Maximum Lift Coefficient, C
lmax> 1.2: This parameter is set based on conditions imposed during wing 
sizing to meet takeoff requirements. Higher Cl max is desired for lower Vstall and weight load (W/S). 
(Figure, 1.1) 
• Lift Coefficient at Zero Angle of Attack, C l,0> 0.3: This parameter is set based on conditions 
imposed during wing sizing to meet cruise requireme nts. Higher Cl,0 is desired for lower Vcruise. This 
will be needed to reduce number of battery packs. 
• Airfoil Pitching Moment Coefficient Curve Slope, C mα< 0: A wellqbalanced airfoil reduces trim drag 
through small required elevator deflections.  
• Zeroqlift Drag Coefficient, C d,0< 0.02: An important parameter to reduce profile drag. 
• Thickness Ratio, t/c > 15%: Higher ratio required to store tennis balls and minimize chord length and 
surface area.  
• Lower Surface Flatness: Curved and underqcambered lower surface are not desired to store 
tennis balls stably. 
• Manufacturability: Sharp leading edge curvatures a nd underqcamber are difficult for balsa sheeting 
and for a smooth heatqshrink covering, respectively. 
Based on the parameters above, four airfoils are chosen for further analysis: ARAqD 20%, GOE 382, MH 
82, and NACA 4418. To compare these airfoils, NACA 2414 is selected as a reference. 
 
1.1.4) Aerodynamic Modules 
 The wing lift and drags are calculated by using Prandtl’s liftingqline theory
7 and using the data 
from U.S. standard atmospheric model6 based on the elevation of 1300ft concurrent with conditions 
experienced in Wichita, KS. (Figure, 1.4 and Figure, 1.5) The aircraft Oswald efficiency factor(e) is 
assumed to be 0.75. 
 
1.2) Preliminary Design 
 Preliminary aerodynamics design mainly figure out the value of aerodynamic characteristics (i.e. 
Wing Span, Wing Surface Area, Aspect Ratio, CL, CD, Cm, and Aerodynamic Center ), and takeoff, 
turning, and landing performance. In addition, there is a change needed from conceptual design. 
 
1.2.1) Changes from Conceptual Design 
 
 Due to lack of confidence of the airfoil data, different analysis methods must be used, including 
no longer using XFOIL
8, which caused a change in the airfoil being used f rom GOE 382 to NACA 4418. 
The main reason being there is no published data available for GOE 382, ARAqD 20%, and MH 82, but 
there were studies conducted by NASA involving the NACA 4418 at low Reynolds Number thus 
facilitating the change.According to this change, the airfoil thickness has reduced 2% (20% to 18%), Clmax 
has reduced 0.2 (1.7 to 1.5), and Cl, α=0 has reduced 0.13 (0.58 to 0.45) for the airfoil. Despite these 
changes, with some having negative effects, altering the proposed wing planform will compensate for this. 
The wing planform area changed from 611.25in2 to 745.63in2, and aspect ratio dropped (4.7 to 4.0). 
These changes directly affect aerodynamic load estimation, but it will not be a critical. 
 
1.2.2) Assumptions  
• Operating at an altitude of 1300 Feet 
• The data on Table 1.1 is near enough to our Reynol ds Number to be used 
• Load factor of 4 
 
 
 
 
1.2.3) Aerodynamic Characteristics 
 
Detailed aerodynamic characteristics are shown on T able1.1. Aspect ratio is lower than what we desired, 
but this value is based on actual wing span and wing surface area. So, we expect reference aspect rati o 
to be higher than this; we have complex wing shape.  
 
1.2.4) Load Estimation 
 
 To estimate aerodynamic loads, lift, drag, and pit ching moment, on the wing, hand calculation 
from the airfoil dataand advanced aerodynamic tools, LinAir
11 and AVL9, are used. Since each method is 
not entirely accurate, using both will provide a better basis for comparison to our hand calculations.  
 
Lift 
 Kuchemann's equation for a swept wing
7, which is based on Helmbold's equation for lowqaspectq
ratio straight wing7, is used for the hand calculations. A panel method code is utilized for AVL9 and 
LinAir11. As Figure,1.6 shows, the CLcurves of these methods are very similar, the estim ated CL max, CL 
cruise, and CLαis 1.0, 0.24, and 0.058/deg, respectively. 
 
Drag 
 Finite wing theory
7 was utilized for the hand calculations. As Figure,1.7 shows, the estimated 
coefficients of the hand calculations and advanced aerodynamic tools are different, but the data still 
provides a range of CD max and CD cruise. According to Figure,1.7, CD max will be a value between 0.01 to 
0.02, and CD cruise will be approximately .12. 
 
1.2.5) Drag Build 
 As the airplane is a modified flying wing to a fly ing wing with tail, the drag buildup is greatly 
simplified with the components being the wing body, vertical, and horizontal stabilizers, and landing gear. 
The airplane has two booms to connect main wing and  tail, but these are located aft of the propellers and 
too thin to take into consideration. Initially, hand calculations and LinAirwere utilized, similarto the load 
estimation. However, the values were deemed too low  to be realistic, so ROSKAM's theory is applied 
additionally (Table 1.2). ROSKAM's theory shows the highest value, so the estimated drag coefficient will 
be 0.055 instead of 0.028, initial estimated value,and should not exceed this value. 
 
1.2.6) Takeoff and Landing Performance 
 
Takeoff Distance: Key parameters of takeoff distanc e are C
L MAX, thrust, wing surface area, aircraft 
weight, and Lift and Drag at 0.7 times of takeoff velocity which is 1.2 times of stall 
velocityB. At this point, we know the CL MAX, wing surface area, aircraft weight, and 
Lift and Drag (Table 1.1), so thrust is the parameter that can change the takeoff 
distance (Figure, 1.8). 
 
Landing Distance: Key parameters of landing distanc e are C
L MAX, wing surface area, aircraft weight, 
and Lift and Drag at 0.7 times of landing velocity which is 1.3 times of stall velocity2. 
We know all the parameters at this point, thrust is not a key parameter for landing. 
So, we can estimate the landing distance (Table 1.1). 
  
1.2.7) Turning Performance 
 
Turn Radius: Key parameters of turn radius are C
L MAX, aircraft weight, wing surface area, and load 
factor7. As the aircraft weight is the parameter, turn radius will be changed before and 
after the mission (Table 1.1). 
 
 
 
 
 
1.3) Ground Validation 
 
1.3.1) Total Drag Coefficient at Cruise Condition 
 As is visible in Table 1.2, the drag values were f ound to have been higher by 0.017 according to 
ROSKAM's theory
10 as compared to the wind tunnel data. However, the data is in the range of estimation, 
so this value is reasonable. Without motors and props, the drag may differ slightly with the full scale 
model, but these should be negligible and counteracted by the lack of a wind tunnel mount on the full 
scale article. Moreover, there is no cross wind in the wind tunnel, and these effects are difficult to analyze. 
 
1.3.2) Maximum Lift Coefficient 
 On the ground validation results, the C
L value is 0.3 lower compared to the design predicti on as 
shown if Figure 1.9. At first, this would appear to be a major obstacle, but further analysis proves 
otherwise. The possible reason for this problem is based around the Reynolds Number. The major 
problem is that we were unable to test at the required q’s for our flight conditions. One reason for this is 
due to the tunnel limitations for lift and drag, and also possible q. At high angles of attack, our mo del 
would exceed these limits even within the dynamic pressure possibilities of the wind tunnel. The other 
issue is due to model limitations. Due to an error in the given loads and test conditions, the model was 
incapable of operating at the high angles of attack  at high q’s. Structurally, for the q’s that were originally 
provided, the model performed well but when pushed well outside it’s designed use, the angles of attack 
were limited to avoid possible damage to the model and consequently, the tunnel. However, due to 
decreases in the weight of the full scale model over the original design conditions, the lift is more than 
adequate. 
 
1.3.3) Cruise and Stall Speed 
 
 As the C
L values are lower than predicted, the stall, takeoff , and cruise velocities will increase 
compared to previous estimates, cruise speed increa ses7.5 fps (74.8 fps to 82.3 fps) and stall speed 
increases 7 fps(36.6 fps to 43.6 fps). These are all well under our maximum velocity and while an 
inconvenience, is not a fatal development. 
 
Section 2) Stability and Controls 
 
2.1) Conceptual design 
 
2.1.1) Requirements and Constraints: 
     In the conceptual design process, the main focus of S&C is to come up with an aircraft design that 
would satisfy both longitudinal and lateral stability. Among the requirements of S&C was to maintain t he 
reasonable static margin that is between 5% to 15%15 .This also involve a minimal change in static 
margin when the payload is dropped. To achieve this , we had to come up with a design that would allow 
internal payload storage that is as close to the aircraft CG as possible. Other requirements and 
constraints included limiting the control surface deflection to 2015,18 degrees to reduce drag and 
undesirable hinge moments. This can be achieved by proper sizing of the control surfaces. Another 
critical S&C issue during conceptual design was to come up with a design that would maintain stability  in 
strong wind  
2.1.2) Goals 
 Maintain Cm
α of less than 017 
 Minimize wing disturbances on the horizontal tail 
2.1.3) Center of Gravity placement: 
  In order to ease the allocation of the center of gravity to assist in balancing the aircraft, the battery pack 
has been assumed to be movable along the fuselage l ength. The weight estimates of different 
components will be balanced laterally and longitudinally to place the cg in a required location. 
2.1.4) Control surfaces: 
   Analysis and optimization was conducted in selectin g the appropriate airfoil for the tail vertical and 
horizontal. Symmetric airfoils
21 were chosen for horizontal and vertical tails as s hown below. 
Horizontal tail – NACA 0009 
Vertical tail     – NACA 0006 
     
2.2) Preliminary design
 
    In the Preliminary design process initial aircraft sizing and predicted aircraft weight was initiated, which 
is used to determine the lateral and longitudinal control performance of the aircraft.  Trade studies are 
performed and optimization is done in order to come  up with the best control surface sizing as possible. 
To ensure that the aircraft would be able to successfully complete the mission, both static and dynamic 
stability were analyzed. Control surface sizes, locations, and S&C derivatives are computed and 
optimized. 
2.2.1) Critical S&C parameters
 
• Payload Configuration: Payload must be located such that minimal CG shifts  occur after the payload 
is does not adversely affect stability characteristics18 
 
• Static Margin: To obtain sufficient maneuverability, the static ma rgin (SM) must be kept at a low value 
while still maintaining adequate stability18 
 
• Twin Propulsion System: Motors positioned on booms will create a thrustqinduced yawing moment. 
Large thrustqpitch coupling requires aircraft CG to be near the thrustqline20. 
 
• • • • Control Surface Sizing and Placement: The control surfaces have been sized to maintain la teralq
directional control in high crossqwind. The technique of maximizing the distance from the CG to the 
longitudinal control surface AC to reduce control surface deflections was used. All control surfaces are 
sized to keep deflections under 20°15,18. 
 
2.2.2) Components weights and CG placement 
 All the weights of major components have been estimated using historical data. Table 2.1 Shows the 
summary of the weights and their respective distances from the leading edge. Aircraft components have 
been positioned in such a way that they put a resultant aircraft CG at a reasonable position. With the 
weight estimates, the aircraft CG is place at 6.52 inches from the leading edge of the AC. This gives a 
static margin of 10%. The propulsion battery pack will be made to be movable to adjust the center of 
gravity so that the static margin can be flexible within a safety range of 5% to 20%. This will give e nough 
tolerance in case the payload bay will be slightly shifted. The payload bay CG is made to be placed ri ght 
by the CG of the aircraft. 
 
 
2.2.3) Wing Sizing: 
  For a blended wing configuration, the wing occupies more space than any other component. The control  
surfaces of the wing have been sized using the Etki n
16 and Raymer21 books. The aileron span has been 
assumed to extend to 50% of the wing span and 30% i n chord.  
     .Aileron span is 13.8 inches 
     .Aileron chord is 1.8 inches 
 
2.2.4) Tail and boom sizing sizing: 
   An HqTail
21 configuration with a high horizontal is the one that has been chosen for our design to keep it 
out of the wake at high angles of attack. The tail booms have been assumed to extend from the wing 
section. They are the same booms that are being used to support the props. The length of the boom is 
calculated using the method in Raymer22. The moment arm (distance from the tail quarter chord to the 
wing quarter chord) which is part of the boom is calculated to be 39 inches which gave enough length to 
give a reasonable moment 
 
2.2.5) Control surface sizing: 
     In order for the plane to have the required control in takeqoff and turn conditions, reasonable size of 
control surfaces is required. The control surfaces have been sized using Etkin and Raymer books .In 
order for a rudder to trim the aircraft for a sideslip at a particular velocity whether during cruise or stall, it 
has need sized to be 90% of the vertical span and 50% of the vertical chord. Also in order to trim the 
aircraft, the elevators
23 have been sized to be 90% of the horizontal span a nd 50% of the horizontal chord 
 
2.2.6) Horizontal tail 
   A high horizontal has been the preferable one so as  to keep it away from the wing disturbances as 
possible .The horizontal tail span is the same as the distance between the two booms. 
 
o Airfoil is NACA 0009 
o Horizontal tail chord is 5.7 inches 
o Horizontal tail span is 21.6 
o Elevator chord is 2.75 inches 
o Elevator span is 19.44 inches 
2.2.7) Vertical tail 
     The distance between the verticals is the same dis tance between the two props because they are also 
sized by the booms. 
o Airfoil is NACA 0006 
o Vertical tail chord is 5.7 inches 
o Vertical tail span is 7.1 inches 
o Rudder chord is 2.25 inches 
o Rudder span is 6.39 inches 
 
2.2.8) S&C Preliminary predictions: 
The methods outlined in Youtch and Morriss
20 together with detailed techniques in Roskam 15 were initially 
used to estimate the S&C derivatives and they are s ummarized in table 2.1. Later on the stability 
characteristic was evaluated using the vortex lattice method as implemented in AVL. The resulting 
derivatives obtained proved the plane to be stable in both static and dynamic conditions.  
Table.2 shows the summary of the control derivatives 
The trim plots are reflected in fig.2.1 
 
2.3) Detail Design 
 
2.3.1) Aircraft Component Weight & CG Buildup  
The weights associated with components used for the aircraft are maintained and updated regularly.Slight 
changes in the component weight made a slight diffe rence in the aircraft CG but different components 
were moved around in order to maintain the reasonab le SM . The new aircraft component CG buildup is 
presented in Table 2.3. 
The updated CG of the airplane is at 7.7 inches from the leading edge with a SM of 8.3% 
 
2.3.2) Wind Tunnel test  and result analysis 
     Wind tunnel tests were run at different aerodynamic pressures and the data was analyzed and 
compared to the predicted values. There were slight offsets in the parameters due to different possible 
reasons. The change in lift coefficient slope increased the CM-alphato q0.004706.This is quite a huge swing 
but it still holds the stability of the airplane even at high angles of attack. 
Pitching moment at zero angle of attack was found to be larger than the initially predicted value. One of 
the possible reasons here might be the inaccuracy in setting up the elevator deflection during model 
installation into the tunnel. Further different tests were run at the predicted elevator deflections during 
cruise and 1.2Vstall and the pitching moment trend proved the stability of the airplane since it was 
negative all the way even though the pitching momen t coefficients were not as exact as the predicted 
numbers. 
      The plots for the moment coefficients at different aerodynamic pressures for cruise and take off  
conditions are shown in fig.2.3  
 
2.3.3) Cruise and take off Condition Analysis. 
The model was tested at different dynamic pressures  of 6,16 and 24 to simulate cruise conditions. 
Elevator deflections were introduced to check trim conditions. The stall speed for the model was 
calculated to be 40.23 ft/s compared to 35.35 ft/s as predicted. The change in the value is because the 
model was tested at wide range of speeds with big i ntervals in between. Lesser speed intervals would 
have produced more accurate results. At higher speeds the model was able to generate enough lift with 
less elevator deflections. The pitching moment plot showed that the aircraft had a negative pitching 
moment (with a negative slope) the entire time indicating a stable flight. 
 
Section 3) Propulsion 
 
3.1) Conceptual Design 
The first step during conceptual design was to stud y all the possible propulsion configurations that 
would fit the designs selected and analyze them with a missionqoriented focus. In order to do these 
studies assumptions were needed, but as the project and the analysis continue, the assumptions are 
going to be changed for real values.  
 
3.1.1) Assumptions: 
The following assumptions let us had a better and closer idea of the parameters that were critical 
during this step of the design process. 
• Batteries have an average voltage of 1V per cell. 
• Batteries being considered: Elite 2,000 (2,000 mAh ). 
• Airplane weight, W = 8lb. (128 oz.). 
• Oswald efficiency factor, e = 0.75 (most aircraft are between 0.7 and 0.85). 
• Zeroqlift drag, CD
0 = 0.02045. 
• Propeller efficiency, η = 0.4. 
• Lowest Wichita altitude = 1,296 ft. 
• Highest altitude allowed = 1,670 ft. 
 
3.1.2) Battery Analysis: 
The initial analysis made to the batteries was to obtain the maximum number of cells allowed since 
we have a weight restriction of 1lb. (16 oz.) for the entire propulsion system battery packs. 
• At 20 cells weight is 18.2 oz., which is more than  the weight allowed. 
• At 17 cells weight is 15.47 oz., which is below th e weight allowed but since we are running 2 
motors we need an even number of cells. 
• Maximum number of cells would be 16, which is a to tal weight of 14.56 oz. or 0.91 lb. 
 
3.1.3) Single-Engine vs. Dual-Engine: 
Analyzing the mission and the assumed weight of the  fully loaded aircraft(including payload), a singleq
engine would be produce enough thrust; but after reviewing and doing analysis on the weight, efficienc y, 
and performance of the single motor, a dualqengine propulsion system had more configuration options 
available. 
• Weight difference between 1 and 2 engines was mini mal in order to be considered an important 
factor. A singleqengine configuration would need to be bigger with a heavier propeller; a dualq
engine configuration would need to be smaller with lighter propellers. 
• Cost was considered since it is one of the scoring  factors. The difference in cost between a single 
and a dualqengine configuration was about 25% to 50% giving an advantage to the singleqengine 
configuration. 
• Considering performance, there is a big advantage using 2 engines. Using the best single engine 
at a max of 40amps gives us the performance of a basic/below average dualqengine 
configuration. 
• Also using a dualqengine configuration providesmor e market options when trying to optimize our 
airplane on the next design steps. 
 
3.1.4) Calculations: 
The following values were obtained after doing the proper analysis using the assumptions mentioned 
at the beginning of this section: 
Stall speed: 
• 1,670 ft.: V
Stall Altitude = 64.6ft/s 
• 1,483 ft.:V Stall Altitude = 64.4ft/s 
• 1,296 ft.: V Stall Altitude = 64.2ft/s 
Take off speed: 
• V LO = 39.6 ft/s 
Landing speed: 
• V T = 42.9ft/s 
Minimum power required at cruise condition: 
• 1,670 ft.:V Min PR = 44.8 ft/s 
• 1,483 ft.:V Min PR = 44.7 ft/s 
• 1,296 ft.:V Min PR = 44.5 ft/s 
 
3.1.5) Predictions: 
Also the following parameters were predicted: 
Power available: 
• PA = 240W. 
Propeller Diameter: 
• D = 8.5 in. 
Endurance: 
• 240 seconds. 
Propulsion system weight: 
• WP = 1.81 lb. 
 
3.2) Preliminary Design 
Continuing with the following step of the design process, preliminary design,validation and verificati on 
of the data previously obtained needs to be done. Some coefficients were updated, changing assumption 
for real parameters. After being done with these initial steps, the results were improved with better 
equations and more deep analysis, as needed. Takeof f and landing analysis was rechecked since 
assumptions previously made were vague due to minim al information on the landing gear configuration. 
 
With all previous updates, the diameter of the propeller was obtained and, in order to have better 
range for analysis and market options, propellers that were 1 in. smaller and 2 in. larger were taken into 
consideration. Our range of search was between 7 in . and 10 in. propellers, and the brands taken into 
consideration were APC and AeroNaut.After doing the proper analysis using JavaProp the best three 
propellers arranged from high to low efficiency were: APC 10x5E, APC 9x4.5E, and APC 8x4E.  
 
The idea of having a counterqrotating propeller configuration was taken into consideration. If a 
propeller with a counterqrotating configuration was selected within the best three and the efficiency 
difference was not that high,the selection would change giving preference to the counterqrotating 
propeller. Torque effects produced by the engines would be balanced and no engine would be considered 
a critical engine, in case of a failure. 
 
Being said this and after analyzing, the new propellers arrangement giving preference to the counterq
rotating configuration and arranging from high to low efficiency was: APC 9x4.5E, APC 10x5E, and APC 
8x4E. The counterqrotating propeller or pusher propeller is APC 9x4.5EP and the efficiency sacrificed is 
about 4%. 
 
Once the propeller selection was done and since all power requirements were already analyzed, the 
motor selection started. Motors that have a KV value between 700 and 1,200 were considered in order to  
run a motor at low revolutions per minute (RPM) and high voltage. Having a low KV motor will help to 
produce more torque.  
 
Different market options were considered, but in the end the motors that fitted the requirements and 
needs were the Rimfire .10 and the SuperTigre .10. Rimfire .10 motor has the following characteristics: 
325W, 30A, weight of 0.156lb., and a KV rating of 1 ,250. SuperTigre .10 has the following characterist ics: 
320W, 29A, weight of 0.150lb., and a KV rating of 1 ,250. With these values, Rimfire was the primary 
option and SuperTigre the backup option. It is impo rtant to remember that Udaan has a twinqengine 
configuration.  
 
Initially, the battery configuration was two packs of 7qcells Elite 2,000, but after concerns about its 
poor and variant efficiency the batteries were changed. The final configuration is two packs of 8qcells Elite 
1,500. 
 
3.2.1) Assumptions:  
These are the assumptions made during this process. 
• Takeoff altitude = 1,300 ft. 
• Cruise altitude = 1,439 ft. (considering the highe st altitude in Wichita plus 100 ft.). 
• Friction coefficient, µ
r = 0.4 (assuming paved surface) 
• Ground effect, ϕ = 0.81 
 
3.2.2) Results and Data Analysis:  
These are the final results and data obtained after the proper analysis. A thrust available versus thrust 
required plot for cruise condition can be found on Propulsion Plot 1. 
• Power from the motor, Pa = 315W / motor. 
• Endurance = 270 seconds. 
• Average propeller efficiency, η = 0.5. 
• Minimum power required speed, V
Min PR = 31.2ft/s. 
• Cruise speed, V Cruise = 73.5 ft/s. 
• Maximum speed, V Max = 87.3 ft/s 
• Total propulsion system weigh, W P = 1.65 lb. 
 
3.2.3) Propeller Analysis: 
Counterqrotating configuration with one APC 9x4.5E and another APC 9x4.5EP propellers. Plots obtained 
from the analysis made at different RPM’s on JavaProp can be found on Propulsion Plot 2, Propulsion 
Plot 3, Propulsion Plot 4, and Propulsion Plot 5.  
 
3.2.4) Motor Analysis:  
Two Rimfire .10 motors with the SuperTigre .10 motors as backup. 
 
3.2.5) Battery Pack Analysis:  
Two packs of 8qcells Elite 1,500 with an average endurance of 270 seconds. 
 
 
 
3.3) Detail Design  
As the design process continued, ground validation took place. During this step, the propulsion 
system was tested and reviewed in order to proof ca lculations and estimates previously obtained. The 
final propulsion system consists of the following items: propellers, motors, motor mounts, ESC’s, wires, 
fuse and batteries. 
3.3.1) Propulsion System Weight: 
The initial step during this part of the design process was to have the propellers balanced and break 
in the battery packs. After finishing these, a more accurate and realistic weight was obtained. Previously 
our weight was estimated to be at 1.6 lb. (without motor mounts); now our actual weight is 1.76lb. 
(Including motor mounts). This tells us that our weight estimate was correctly made and that the time 
spent obtaining information was adequate. A detailed table that includes individual and total weight can 
be found on Propulsion Table 1. 
3.3.2) Battery Packs: 
After testing our battery packs, we were pleased with the data and performance obtained. Our 
batteries are capable of holding more than 1Vgiving us the performance desired. As an example 
drowning 20A, which will be the maximum amperes dro wned by each pack, we got an endurance of 195 
seconds. This allows us to be more confident about our configuration and the analysis done on the 
batteries. A plot comparing battery tests at different amperes and endurance can be found on Propulsion 
Plot 6. 
3.3.3) Thrust: 
The next essential step, and maybe one of the most critical, was to validate the thrust obtained from 
the motors and propellers. Previous calculations indicated static thrust of 3.28 lb. (total, for two m otors) 
and a cruise thrust of 3.22 lb. (total, for two motors).  
The settings for our propulsion test were to have the motors running at 17V and drawing 20A at 
different Q’s (dynamic pressure) for cruise, maximum and landing conditions. A detailed table with the 
results obtained from the wind tunnel test can be found on Propulsion Table 2. 
After reviewing the data obtained from the wind tun nel test, some errors were found. During the 
propulsion test one of the propellers was not properly adjusted and came loose while testing cruise th rust, 
so data for that run wan not recorded. This means that data for static thrust was not obtained properly 
and the value presented on the table above is not the real one since it only shows a fraction of it. Also 
some of the wiring was not label correctly or compa tible with the equipment on the wind tunnel at the 
beginning of the test, but they were solved before the test runs while mounting the propulsion system.  
Data for cruise, maximum, and landing are reliable and show that even though the thrust values are 
lower than predicted (i.e. 0.6 lb. less on cruise thrust), they provide enough thrust to perform with great 
success the mission required. The difference between the calculated and the real thrust obtained show 
that all the previous analysis was done correctly, since many factors such as real propeller efficienc y and 
motor performance is not going to be known until testing is complete. 
3.3.4) ESC (Electronic Speed Controller): 
The choices for motors, propellers and batteries were carefully selected considering losses on each 
category. The configuration tested on the wind tunnel proved that it was ready to be mounted, but once  it 
was installed and ready for be programmed the ESC’s  did not work due to an overqvoltage.  
The ESC’s provided were not compatible with the battery configuration in series since they are 
providing around 22V. New ESC’s that are capable of holding more Volts were used for test flights and 
competition. 
 
Section 4) Structures 
 
4.1) Conceptual Design Report 
4.1.1) Requirements and Constraints: 
a) To provide a structural framework that would wit hhold the stresses and forces for all the 
conditions during the mission. 
b) The wingspan has to be a minimum of 3 feet. 
c) The payload has to be placed inside the flying w ing hence the structure should have enough 
room (thickness). 
d) The aircraft should be made as light as possible  without neglecting the structural abilities and 
integrity. 
 
4.1.2) Assumptions: 
a) The beams used in the structure are assumed to b e prismatic, homogeneous and uniform. 
b) Other properties like thermal, impact etc. are i gnored at this phase of design. 
c) The materials used are assumed to be Hookean in nature. 
d) Half the wing accounts for 50% of the total lift . 
e) The lift generated is uniform across the wingspa n and the lift profile is rectangular. 
 
4.1.3) Material Selection and Properties: A careful analysis of different materials was done for their 
physical and structural properties. Balsa and spruce were chosen because of their high Modulus of 
Elasticity and high strength to weight ratio. These two materials are easily available and cheap too. 
 
4.1.4) Factors of Safety and Load Factors
4.1: 
 
a) Limit Load: The maximum load the aircraft is going to experie nce during the flight. The load is 
typically the highest amount of lift generated. 
 
b) Proof Load: The product of Limit load and proof factor gives us the Proof load which in reality is 
the amount of load the structure should hold without any damage. The proof factor lies 
somewhere between 1.0q1.5. 
 
c) Ultimate Load: The product of Limit Load and the ultimate factor  gives us the ultimate load, 
which is the load beyond which the structure fails. The ultimate factor is usually 1.5..  
 
4.1.5) Beam analysis
4.2: 
 
EulerqBernoulli’s beam theory was used to analyze the different cross sections of beams. Two major 
spars will be utilized at approximately 25% and 70% chord. The center of pressure is more likely to be 
along the 25% chord line and hence the main spar (at 25%) would account for approximately 75% of the 
wing loading. The aftqspar at 70% chord would carry the remaining 25% load and also support control 
surfaces like ailerons. The lift distribution was assumed to be rectangular and uniform across the win gq
span, which is actually the worst case scenario. 
 
a)  I –Beam: Iqbeams for different materials were analyzed to carry the proof load without significant 
bending; Iqbeams weigh lesser and provide significant moment of Inertia. History tells us that Iq
beams are one of the best choices when it comes to spars for aircraft wings. The maximum 
deflection at the wing tip while experiencing the proof load was found to be about 1.3 inches. 
 
b) Solid Rectangular Beam:  Solid rectangular beams for different materials were analyzed for the 
spars. These beams provide good structure and rigid ity but weigh heavier than the IqBeams. 
 
c) Circular beams for the booms: Circular beams will be used to build the twinqbooms. The booms 
will have to restrain bending as well as torsional loads.  
 
4.1.6) Stresses on the Beams: 
 
a) Shear Stress4.3: Shear stresses were calculated along the beam usi ng the Mechanics of 
Material’s approach. The maximum shear stress was o bserved at the midsection of the wing. 
Figure 4.2 shows the distribution of shear stress along the wing span. The maximum shear stress 
was calculated to be 95 Psi. (Fig 4.3) 
b) Internal Moments: Internal moments were calculated along the beam using the Mechanics of 
Material’s approach.  
c) Normal Stress (Bending)4.4: Normal stress or bending stress was calculated along the wingq
span, again the maximum normal stress was found to be at the center of the wingqbody. 
The maximum Bending stress calculated was about 3.6 Ksi (Fig. 4.3) 
 
 
4.1.7) Twin Booms: There are 2 booms that connect to the power plant and all the way across to the tail 
section. The vertical stabilizers are attached to the booms. The booms will provide structural stability and 
support for the airframe. They will also act as the moment carriers for stability and control. The twin 
booms will be made off thin walled tubular beams fo r structural rigidity and strength. 
 
4.1.8) Landing Gears: For the purpose of ground control the best type of landing gear would be a tricycle 
for the flying wing. The gears will be picked off t he shelf, readily available in the market and the landing 
gear assembly will be designed such that it would be capable of handling 5g loads (Proof Load) which 
would ensure that no damage results from a rough landing. 
 
4.1.9) Tails:  Tails (Vertical and Horizontal) will use spars mad e up of spruce and have a I crossqsection. 
Further analysis on the tails will be done at a later phase of design. 
 
4.2) Preliminary Design Report  
4.2.1) Material Finalized: 
a) Spars – Spruce sticks  
b) Ribs – 1/16
th and 1/8th Balsa 
c) Aluminum 6061T for the TailqBooms. 
d) Bulkheads: Balsa and spruce sticks. 
 
4.2.2) Spars: q Two spars (main and aft) will be used to make the wing structurally sound.  Because of 
the uneven geometry, placing the main spar at 25% of the MAC would involve using joints, which would 
mean weaker points and would also complicate the structural analysis.  The main spar would be at 25% 
at the wing tips and the center section. The center of the aircraft would have stronger ribs to transfer and 
account for the moment generated by the forces at the AC. The spars are designed to withhold bending 
stresses up to 3.8Ksi
4.1 and shear stress of 164 Psi, 107 Psi at the main a nd aft spars respectively. The 
detailed dimensions and stresses on the spars can b e found on figure 4.3 and 4.4 respectively4.3. 
 
4.2.3) Ribs: Ribs are responsible to give the preferred aerodynamic shape to the wingqbody. After careful 
analysis and shear force calculations balsa wood sh eets was found to be the best choice for the ribs. Two 
different thicknesses of ribs will be used along the span. The payload section (15’x24’) will use 1/8
th balsa 
whereas the rest of the wing will use 1/16th Balsa. Shear flows and shear stresses were calcula ted along 
the surface of the ribs to make sure that they can handle the different forces generated during the flight. 
 
4.2.4) Twin Booms: Twin booms on the aircraft prove to be very vital as they connect most of the 
important parts of the airplane. The booms run from  the very tip of the aircraft till the very end. The motors 
will be mounted on the booms and the booms would ca rry through the wings and into the tails as shown 
in the figure 5.1. Finding a good material for the boom was crucial as it is almost 4 feet long and we have 
2 of them. After careful analysis thinqwalled cylindrical aluminum tubes were found to be strong and light 
enough to hold all the bending and twisting. The bo oms selected were of 3/8
th inch diameter with 0.035’ 
thickness. The 2 booms combined weigh about 0.3 Lbs ... 
 
4.2.5) Payload Section: The tennis balls will be placed between the ribs somewhere along the centerq
line of the aircraft. Spanqloading is incorporated to reduce weight and reduce structural complexity. The 
bombing mechanism is discussed at a later part of the report. Thin sheets of ply would be used as the 
bombqbay door. They will be hinged to the ribs and spars. A small scaled prototype of the bomb bay and  
the doors was analyzed to predict the thickness of the ply and the amount of stresses it encounters. 
 
4.2.6) Tails (Horizontal and vertical):  The actual sizing and location of the tails can be found in table 
6.1. Two verticals will have 1 spar located at the aft to support the rudder and provide a better structure. 
1/16
th Balsa will be used for ribs and ½ x ½ (inches) spr uce sticks will be used for spars. Similarly the 
horizontal will have a spar to support the elevator as well as provide the strength to account for the  lift and 
moments on the tails. 
 
4.2.7) Landing Gear: There are three angles/distances that a taildragger configuration must adhere to. 
These include: the C.G. location, static margin, tail down angle, maximum roll angle till wingtip to ground 
contact. These are not determined by the landing gear, but are a requirement for its correct placement. 
The tail dragger configuration has the positive consequence, of allowing for steerable tail gear to ai d in 
ground handling. By connecting the tail gear directly to the rudder, steerable gear can be achieved with 
very little increase in weight and does not require additional servos. This becomes a favorable tradeoff, 
making takeoff possible in more adverse conditions. 
The first of these is the rotation necessary for takeoff. For the landing gear, this must be in a range 
between 10 and 15 degree 
37. Since our necessary rotation is only 8 degrees, a maximum rotation of 12.6 
degrees allows for extra margin of error to avoid damage to the tail from over rotation. This value falls into 
the required range angle as well. See figure 4.5 for the side view 
The next angle is from the landing gear location to the C.G. Then entire static margin, furthest forward 
C.G., and furthest aft C.G. to the landing gear wheels should lie between 16 and 25 degrees. This gives 
the final landing gear location to be 5.3” aft of the leading edge, and a height of 7” which will prov ide a 
total measurement to the C.G. in the vertical direction of 9”.  
The lateral location is also important to make sure the aircraft will not overturn the main gear 38. The 
optimum landing gear location for structural considerations is with them being mounted to each of the twin 
booms. The angle from the gear to the wingtip in the tail down configuration should be great than 25 
degrees. In this current location, this angle is 35 degrees. See Figure 4.6 for the front view. This easily 
meets the requirements and should also aid in landing stability by creating a larger platform to land on 27. 
While a set of landing gear must be strong and fit all the requirements, it must also be as light as 
possible. For the main gear, a set of off the shelf aluminum main gears were chosen being that they were 
strong, the exact dimensions needed, and still fairly lightweight. Composite main gear was not chosen 
due to higher cost, the geometry not being as close, and finally strength. While composites are strong , 
finding a set with the required dimensions capable of handling our aircraft fully loaded were essentia lly 
nonexistent. If a set was close, it was made for a much heavier airplane and was consequently too heav y. 
The next components were wheels. With the low weight of the aircraft, foam wheels were chosen due to 
their very light weight. They weigh 0.095 Ounces 28 each for the main tires, and 0.016 Ounces 29 for the 
rear tires for a total tire weight of 0.101 Ounces. The front have a diameter of 1.6875” and the rear have a 
diameter of .75”. 
 
 
 
4.3) Detail Design: 
 
4.3.1) Ribs & Spars: The ribs were made up of 1/8th and 1/16th balsa as analyzed during the preliminary 
design phase. The spars had to be modified slightly in order for them to be readily available in the m arket. 
Precautions were taken while choosing the sizes kee ping in mind the load factors and stresses 
associated with them. The final sizing of the spars are provided on Figure 4.4. The overall weight of the 
spars increased approximately by 7% but that was co unterbalanced by making lightening holes on the 
ribs and the landing gears. 
4.3.2) Booms: The aluminum booms were sized exactly as analyzed d uring the preliminary design 
phase. No changes were made as they were readily av ailable in the market. The booms were attached to 
the motors on one end and the tails at the other end. The bending on the boom was approximately 1.2Eq3 
inches
4.2at the load factor of 3.8. 
4.3.3) Landing Gears: Landing gear was purchased off the shelf in accorda nce with the analysis done 
during the preliminary design. Aluminum plates and tubes were used to make the landing gear mounting 
plates which were then welded to the booms. 
4.4) Ground testing and validation: 
4.4.1) Experimental Results: Structural load test was performed by loading the wing along the spar with 
sandqbags. 19 sand bags each weighing 1.02 lbs. were loaded uniformly along the mainqspar and 9 sandq
bags were loaded uniformly along the aft spar each weighing 0.52 lbs. The total load on the wing was 24 
lbs. The wing deflected by 1.13 inches, approximate ly 0.07 inches less than what was predicted. 
4.4.2) Discussions: As far as the slight deviation on the spars’ deflection is concerned, it’s mainly due to 
not so accurate loading. Accurate loading was not possible because of ribs in between the spars. In 
addition to that the spars used on the aircraft were slightly bigger than the one initially analyzed, that was 
to avoid construction issues (Joints) as these were off the shelf readily available spar sticks. The s pars 
are still within the estimated bending region (75% of fracture state). As a conclusion the structure will be 
able to hold the desired load factors and different flight conditions during the mission. 
 
Section 5) Payload Analysis 
The payload that our aircraft will be carrying consists of 20 tennis balls held internally of the main wing. 
They will be arranged in a pattern that is 5 columns, each oriented to run the length of the chord, of 4 
tennis balls. (See Figure 5.1). A large portion of our design hinged on the idea of using a payload ba y. 
The issue was finding a mechanism that was both strong and still lightweight. The mechanism that we 
designed can be run by a total of 2 servos for all the tennis balls. It will allow the bomb bay doors to both 
open and close on command to minimize the drag. Aft er building a small mockup for a proof of concept 
test (See Figures 5.2 and 5.3) several things became apparent. One is that for the design to be most 
effective, the servo and rod mechanism must be mounted centrally forward to aft along the doors. This 
minimizes the torque placed on the linkage mounts, and will minimize the necessary structure as much a s 
possible. The bay doors will be oriented so that they hinge parallel to the slipstream. What this does is 
minimize the force necessary to open and close the doors while the aircraft is in flight. 
There were two other configurations considered, but both were deemed unusable for our airplane design. 
One idea was to just open the doors, and leave them  open. The next was to open them and then have a 
sort of spring close them again. Neither of these options were chosen because while lightweight, they did 
not securely close the doors which was an unnecessa ry risk to take with the payload being carried 
internal to the wing that is relied upon for lift. 
When matched with the mission profile, that of a dive bomber, the ability to drop the entire payload 
quickly is crucial for accuracy with such a small target. With the payload bay designed to drop the pa yload 
all at once, this will complement the mission profile and provide the best accuracy. 
Section 6) Lessons Learned 
There were many lessons learned during this project  that were both part of the project, and others 
dealing with the team. The ones learned dealing sol ely with the project mostly dealt with construction. The 
main lesson deals with the adhesive. The build time  greatly increased due to wasted time waiting on the 
glue to cure. This problem was made worse due to the design of the airplane. Instead of having a wing, 
fuselage, and tail assemblies, the airplane has just the wing and tail assembly. This means much less to 
do during the down time which negatively affects build time and makes planning even more crucial. The 
other lesson deals with both team members and build ing experience. While there is no solution besides 
gaining experience, or already having it, after building the aircraft, having more build experience would 
not only speed things up, but would also make the process go much smoother. Also with experience, the 
issue of having experience with remote control systems becomes very apparent. Again there is no 
solution other than experience. A lot can be learned from other sources, but it is still no replacement for 
experience dealing with these systems. There were a lso lessons learned dealing solely with the team. 
The main one deals with finding a meeting time that  will work for everyone. It’s harder than it would seem 
for a group of seniors. It is actually not jobs that really make this difficult, but instead is other classes that 
are the main source of interference. This leads directly into the next lesson that was learned. When f ew 
meeting times were found, the possible options were  the weekend. After the meetings were established 
during those times, production suffered greatly. The lesson is that the team members do need downtime 
to stay focused and efficient. While there were others, these proved to be the most prevalent. 
Section 7) Final Project Costs 
 At the beginning of the project, true to industry examples, the team was required to propose a 
budget for the project. This was challenging with no one having any prior experience, but the proposal 
actually was fairly close to the actual costs. Initially, our estimate was a total cost of $440,812.5 overall. 
For a breakdown, see Figure 7.1, and Table 7.1. The reason for the similarities is simple, overestimation 
on some areas, not using certain facilities, and going over budget in other areas. All of this helped to even 
out the costs and led to our final project costs being $441,150 with operating costs. A breakdown of t he 
actual values can be found in Figure 7.2, and Table 7.2. 
Section 8) Vehicle Cost 
 The initial estimate on the vehicle cost was also fairly accurate. Until the ESC issues, the airplane 
cost was actually under budget at a cost of $478.39 but with the addition of the new ESC’s, the price rose 
to $516.84 as it currently stands. The reason it was initially so accurate was that when the initial estimate 
was constructed, the actual prices of generic compo nents were used, and then an additional buffer of 
10% was added to cover shipping and any price differences. With some parts being less expensive, or on 
sale, that dropped the price further and helped absorb some of the price increase of the new ESC’s. 
Section 9) Conclusion 
 
 The aircraft has undergone many changes from conce ptual design, to the completed model. The 
completed model ended up weighing less than our original design, and even less than our most recent 
weight estimate. The steps taken from conceptual design to detailed design and then construction 
pointed out the flaws in our original design, and gave us insight into what changes needed to be made. 
The final airplane is light weight, and very low drag which fits the mission profile of designing a high 
efficiency bomber perfectly. Especially when combined with the alterations required for accuracy that 
necessitated the need to change the profile to that of a dive bomber. By staying mission oriented 
throughout the project the aircraft design benefited greatly, which in turn led to the team receiving 
additional benefits from this experience. It was not the hardest design to analyze, but was a challenge 
nonetheless. This will greatly help the team as they go on to their careers, by enhancing what was 
already an important aspect of their education. All of this hard work culminated in an airplane that flies 
very well, and is very stable in flight. 
  
References 
 
1. Miller, Dr. Basic Design Concepts. AE 528. Wichita State, Wichita. In Person. 
2. Miller, Dr. Concept Selection. AE 528. Wichita State, Wichita. In Person. 
3. Brinkley, Douglas, and Ronald J. Drez. Voices of  Valor: DqDay: June 6, 1944
. 1st ed. New York: 
Bulfinch Press, 2004. 
4. Raymer, Daniel. Aircraft Design: A Conceptual Approach. 4thEdition.AIAA 2006. 251. Print 
5. Miller, Dr. "Other Important Aspects." AE 528. W ichita State, Wichita. In Person. 
6. Anderson, John. Introduction to Flight. 5th Edition. Boston: McGraw Hill, 2005. Print. 
7. Anderson, John. Fundamentals of Aerodynamics. 4th Edition. Boston: McGraw Hill, 2005. Print. 
8. Drela, M., XFOIL. Vers. 6.94. Computer Software.  MIT, 2001. Windows XP, 532 KB, Download. 
9. Drela, M., AVL. Ver. 3.26. Computer Software. MI T, 2006. Windows XP, 545 KB, Download. 
10. Ira H. Abbott, Albert E. von Doehoff, and Louis  S. Silvers, Jr., NACA Report No. 824 Summary of 
Airfoil Data. p.277q288. 
11. LinAir. Ver. 4.3. Computer Software.Desktop Aer onautics Inc, 2010. Windows XP, Download. 
12. Roskam, J. Airplane Design Part VI: Preliminary  Calculation of Aerodynamic Thrust and Power 
Characteristics. 2. Lawrence, KS: Design Analysis Research Corporation, 2000. 
13. Raymer, D.P. Aircraft Design: A Conceptual Appr oach. 4th ed. Reston, VA: AIAA, 2006. 
14. Raymer, Daniel. Aircraft Design: A Conceptual Approach. 4thEdition.AIAA 2006. 251. Print 
15. Roskam, Jan. Airplane flight dynamics and Automatic flight controls. 1. Kansas: DARcorporation, 
2007 
16. Etkin, Bernard. Dynamics of Flight. 3rd. JOHN WILEY & SONS, INC, 1996. Print. 
17. Etkin, Bernard. Dynamics of Flight. 3rd. JOHN WILEY & SONS, INC, 1996. P.29. Print 
18. Zinzuwadia, C, et. al. Team Wheat, Design/Build /Fly Design Report, Wichita State University, Mar. 
2010 
19. Roskam, Jan. Airplane flight dynamics and Automatic flight controls. 1. Kansas: DARcorporation, 
2007 
20. Yechout, T., Morris, S., Introduction to Aircraft Flight Mechanics: Performance, Static Stability, 
21. Raymer, Daniel. . Aircraft Design: A Conceptual Approach. 4th. Virginia: AIAA, Inc, 2006. Print 
22. Raymer, Daniel. . Aircraft Design: A Conceptual Approach. 4th. Virginia: AIAA, Inc, 2006.p.121 Print 
23. Raymer, Daniel. . Aircraft Design: A Conceptual Approach. 4th. Virginia: AIAA, Inc,   2006.p.124 Print 
24. Anderson, John. Introduction to Flight. 6th International Edition. Singapore: McGraw Hill, 200 8. 405q
438. Print. 
25. Anderson, John. Introduction to Flight. 6th International Edition. Singapore: McGraw Hill, 200 8. 469q
478. Print 
26. Teichmann, Frederick. Airplane Design Manual. 3rd Edition. New York: Pitman Publishing 
Corporation, 1950.158q181. Print. 
27. Teichmann, Frederick. Airplane Design Manual. 3rd Edition. New York: Pitman Publishing 
Corporation, 1950. 263q282. Print. 
28. Davies, Mark. The Standard Handbook for Aeronautical and Astronautical Engineers. 1st Edition. 
McGrawqHill, section 7. eBook. 
29. Raymer, Daniel. Aircraft Design: A Conceptual Approach. 4thEdition.AIAA 2006. 251. Print. 
30. AIAA. Aerospace Design Engineers Guide. 5th Edition. AIAA 2003, section 9. eBook. 
31. AIAA. Aerospace Design Engineers Guide. 5th Edition. AIAA 2003, section 10. eBook. 
32. Austin, Reg. Unmanned Aircraft Systems. 1 st Edition. Wiley 2010, 19q21. eBook. 
33. Megson, Douglas. H. G. Introduction to Aircraft Structural Analysis. Burlington, MA: Butterworthq
Heinemann, 2010. 441q445. Print 
34. Hibbeler, Russell C. Mechanics of Materials. 7th. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2008.  387q
398. Print 
35. Allen, David H., and Walter E. Haiser. Introduction to Aerospace Structural Analysis. Somerset, NJ: 
John Wiley & Sons, 1985. 97q99. Print. 
36. Raymer, Daniel. Aircraft Design: A Conceptual Approach. 4th. Virginia: AIAA, 2006. 264q265. Print. 
37. Raymer, Daniel. Aircraft Design: A Conceptual Approach. 4th. Virginia: AIAA, 2006. 264q265. Print. 
38. Anderson, Jr., John D. Introduction to Flight. 6th. New York: McGrawqHill, 2005. 475q478. Print. 
39. "LYT 1 11/16" Wheels." Hobby-Lobby. N.p., 2011. Web. <http://www.hobbyq
lobby.com/lyt_1_11_16_wheels_pair_2.7_gr._ea_1175_p rd1.htm>. 
40. "LYT 3/4" Wheels." Hobby-Lobby. N.p., 2011. Web. <http://www.hobbyq
lobby.com/lyt_3_4_wheels_pair_.45_gr._ea_1171_prd1.htm>. 
 
 
 
  
Charts and Figures  
Mission Description 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Competitive analysis
 
Parameter Nominal Va
NBOT 
WEFR 
VG 
CA 
Table II.1: Nominal value
Figure I.1 
Figure I.2 
 
al Values Uncertainties Effect On To
4 2 
4.5 0.25 
80 10 0
500 50 0
l values, uncertainties and sensitivities for scori ng parame
 
 
 
n Total Score 
0.97 
0.012 
0.0083 
0.0052 
arameters 
Figu
         
%cha
NBOT
q100%
q75%
q50%
q25%
0% 
25%
50%
75%
100%
         
%cha
WEFR
q75%
q50%
q25%
0% 
25%
50%
75%
100%
Figure II.1 :Competitive score sensitivity 
                          NBOT 
%change 
NBOT 
NBOT SCORE % 
change 
in 
SCORE 
100% 0 32% q74% 
75% 1 54% q55% 
50% 2 76% q37% 
25% 3 99% q18% 
 4 121% 0% 
25% 5 143% 18% 
50% 6 165% 37% 
75% 7 188% 55% 
100% 8 210% 74% 
Table II.2 
                        WEFR 
%change 
WEFR 
WEFR SCORE % 
change 
in 
SCORE 
75% 1.125 388% 221% 
50% 2.25 210% 74% 
25% 3.375 151% 25% 
 4.5 121% 0% 
25% 5.625 103% q15% 
50% 6.75 91% q25% 
75% 7.875 83% q32% 
100% 9 76% q37% 
Table II.3 
 
                             VG 
%change 
VG 
VG SCORE % 
change in 
SCORE 
q100% 0 89% q26% 
q75% 20 97% q20% 
q50% 40 105% q13% 
q25% 60 113% q7% 
0% 80 121% 0% 
25% 100  129% 7% 
Table II.4 
 
                         CA 
%change 
CA 
CA SCORE % 
change 
in 
SCORE 
q75% 125 217% 79% 
q50% 250 153% 26% 
q25% 375 132% 9% 
0% 500 121% 0% 
25% 625 114% q5% 
50% 750 110% q9% 
75% 875 107% q11% 
100% 1000  105% q13% 
Table II.5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Concepts and Configurations Considered 
 
 
Figure III.1 
 
 
 
 
 

Concepts and Configurations Considered 
 
Screening 
Criteria 
Concept 
I 
Concept 
II 
Concept 
III 
Concept 
IV 
Concept 
V 
Concept 
VI 
Concept 
VII 
Concept 
VIII Control 
Ease Of Loading - - 0 0 - 0 + + 0 
Ease of 
Bombing - - - 0 - 0 0 - 0 
Repairability 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Ease of 
Manufacturing + + - 0 0 0 0 + 0 
Accessibility of 
Systems 0 0 0 - - 0 0 0 0 
Landing 
Gear/Layout 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 - 0 
Durability + + + - + 0 + 0 0 
Complexity 0 + 0 - 0 0 - 0 0 
Is it Cool? + - + + + + + + 0 
                    
Total +'s 3 3 2 1 2 1 3 3 0 
Total 0's 4 3 5 5 4 8 5 4 10 
Total -'s 2 3 2 3 3 0 1 2 0 
                    
Overall 1 0 0 -2 -1 1 2 1 0 
 
Figure IV.1 
 
 
 
Concept Weighting and Selection Process 
Criteria Weight  Concept 
I 
Concept 
VI 
Concept 
VII 
Concept 
VIII Control 
Payload Accessibility 30 1 3 4 3 3 
Repairability 10 3 3 3 3 3 
Ease of Manufacturing 15 4 3 3 4 3 
Accessibility of Systems 10 3 3 3 3 3 
Durability 20 4 3 4 3 3 
Complexity 15 3 3 2 3 3 
Score   275 300 335 315 300 
Figure IV.2 
Justification of Selected Concept 
 
 
Figure V.1 

Aerodynamics 
 
Figure, 1.1 Relationship between Wing Loading and S tall Speed at Different Cl max 
 
 
Figure, 1.2 Relationship of ThrustqtoqWeight Ratio,  Stall Speed, and Takeoff Distance 
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
25 30 35 40 45 50 55
W/S (lb/ft2)
Vstall (ft/s)
W/S vs Vstall for Different Cl max
Cl = 1.3
Cl = 1.5
Cl = 1.7
Cl = 1.9
0
0.002
0.004
0.006
0.008
0.01
0.012
0.014
0.016
0.018
0.02
25 30 35 40 45 50
T/W
Vstall (ft/s)
T/W vs Vstall for Different Takeoff Distance (SLO)
SLO = 60
SLO = 80
SLO = 100
SLO = 120
SLO = 140
 
Figure, 1.3 
 
 
Figure, 1.4 Lift Coefficient Curve for Estimation 
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
3 4 5 6
Surface Area (ft2)
Wing Span (ft)
Wing Span vs Surface Area for Different Aspect Ratio and 
Thickness Ratio
AR = 3
AR = 4
AR = 5
AR = 6
AR = 7
t/c = 14%
t/c = 16%
t/c = 18%
t/c = 20%
t/c = 22%
-1
-0.5
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
-20 -10 0 10 20 30
Cl vs AOA
2D 3D 2D Linearized
 
Figure, 1.5  
 
 
Figure, 1.6 Lift Coefficient Curve Comparison betwe en Ground Validation and  Estimations 
 
-0.15
-0.1
-0.05
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
-0.5 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 CL
Drag Polar and CL vs Cm
Cd CD Cm
-0.6
-0.4
-0.2
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
-15 -10 -5 0 5 10 15 20CL
Angle Of Attack (deg)
CL vs AOA
Kuchemann
LinAir
AVL
GVD
 
Figure, 1.7 Drag Polar Comparison of Ground Validat ion and Estimations 
 
 
Figure, 1.8  
 
-0.6
-0.4
-0.2
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
0 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08 0.1 0.12 0.14 0.16
CL
CD
CL vs CD Kuchemann
LinAir
AVL
GVD
3.5
4.5
5.5
6.5
7.5
8.5
9.5
10.5
20 30 40 50
Thrust (lb)
Distance (ft)
Takeoff Distance
 
Figure, 1.9 Lift Coefficient Curve at different q n umbers from Ground Validation 
 
 
Table1, Data List 
-0.4
-0.2
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
-10 -5 0 5 10 15 20CL
AOA (deg)
CL vs AOA
q = 6
q = 8
Prediction
Elevation (ft) 1300 
Density (slugs/ft3) 2.288 x 10 q3 
Viscosity (slugs/ft*s) 3.71 x 10 q7 
Airfoil NACA4418 
Reynolds Number 300,000 
Takeoff Weight (lb) 7.5 
Landing Weight (lb) 5.5 
Wing Span (ft) 4.5 
Wing Surface Area (ft2) 5.17 
Aspect Ratio 3.91 
Aerodynamic Center (%) 24.47 
CL MAX 1.006 
CL α=0 0.278 
α CL=0 (degree) q4.313 
Cd,0 0.019 
Cm,0 q0.096 
V cruise (fps) 69.71 
V stall (fps) 36.64 
V takeoff (fps) 43.97 
V landing(fps) 47.63 
Landing Distance (ft) 85.33 
Turn Radius before mission 
(ft) 
40.71 
Turn Radius after mission (ft) 29.85 
Bank Angle (degree) 75.52 
 
 NACA LinAir ROSKAM GVD 
CD Total 0.028 0.029 0.055 0.040 
Table 2  Drag Data List 
 
Stability and Controls 
Component Weight 
(lbs) 
x location 
(in) 
Aircraft 
cg(in) 
Item CG 
location 
relative to 
aircraft CG 
moment 
about 
aircraft 
cg(lb.in) 
Motor + Prop 0.80 q6.00 6.52 q12.52 q10.02 
Wing 1.75 10.00  3.48 6.09 
2 aileron servos 0.18 10.00  3.48 0.63 
Nose gear(including 
wheels) 
0.30 5.30  q1.22 q0.37 
tail dreagger(including 
wheels) 
0.03 43.84  37.32 0.93 
Booms 0.25 21.55  15.03 3.76 
Horizontal tail 0.08 43.84  37.32 2.99 
Vertical tail 0.06 43.84  37.32 2.24 
Rudder servo 0.06 43.84  37.32 2.09 
Elevator servo 0.09 39.50  32.98 2.89 
batteries 0.85 0.50  q6.02 q5.12 
reciever/control rods 0.25 1.00  q5.52 q1.38 
bomb bay servos 0.09 2.00  q4.52 q0.41 
speed controller 0.16 1.00  q5.52 q0.88 
Table 2.1: components weights and their distances relative to the aircraft cg 
 
   
CL,0 0.28 CL,δe 0.73  Cl,β -0.17 Cl,p -0.81 Cn,δa -0.06 
CL,α 3.82 CM,δe -1.13 Cn,δr -0.092 Cn,p -0.59 Cy,r 0.97 
CM,0 0.0962 Cy,β -0.42 Cl,δr -0.03 Cy,δa 0 Cl,r -0.35 
CM,α -0.38 Cn,β 0.14 Cy,δr 0.19 Cl,δa 0.65 Cn,r -0.09 
          
Table 2.2 Static and dynamic stability derivatives 
 
 
 
Fig. 
Fig
-0.02
-0.015
-0.01
-0.005
0
0.005
0.01
0.015
-10 - 5
CM
Fig. 2.1 trim plot for cruise conditions 
 
Fig. 2.2 Wind tunnel data trim plot 
 
5 0 5 10
AoA (deg
CM vs AOA
 
 
15
 
Table. 2.3 refined weight build up and CG estimate 
 
Propulsion 
 
 
Component Weight (lbs) x location (in) Aircraft cg(in)
Item CG location 
relative to aircraft 
CG
moment 
about aircraft 
cg(lb.in)
Motor + Prop 0.40 -3.00 7.70 -10.70 -4.28
Wing 1.63 8.78 1.08 1.76
2 aileron servos 0.18 8.78 1.08 0.19
Nose gear(including wheels) 0.26 5.30 -2.40 -0.62
tail dreagger(including wheels) 0.03 43.84 36.14 0.90
Booms 0.37 0.00 -7.70 -2.85
Horizontal tail 0.08 43.84 36.14 2.89
Vertical tail 0.06 43.84 36.14 2.17
Rudder servo 0.06 43.84 36.14 2.02
Elevator servo 0.09 39.50 31.80 2.78
batteries 0.95 0.50 -7.20 -6.84
reciever/control rods 0.25 1.00 -6.70 -1.68
bomb bay servos 0.18 2.00 -5.70 -1.03
speed controller 0.30 1.00 -6.70 -2.01
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110 120 130
Thrust (lb.)
VCruise (ft/s)
Figure 3.1
TA vs. TR
(Cruise Condition)
TA
TR
 
Figure 3.2 
Javaprop Analysis at 5,000 RPM with APC 9x4.5E Propeller 
 
 
Figure 3.3 
Javaprop Analysis at 6,000 RPM with APC 9x4.5E Propeller 
 
 
Figure 3.4 
Javaprop Analysis at 7,000 RPM with APC 9x4.5E Propeller 
 
 
Figure 3.5 
Javaprop Analysis at 8,000 RPM with APC 9x4.5E Propeller 
 
 

Item Weight 
Propellers 1.3 oz. 
Motors 6.5 oz. 
Motor mounts 0.4 oz. 
ESC’s 2.2oz. 
Battery Packs 13.8 oz. 
Fuse 0.25 oz. 
Wires 3.8 oz. 
TOTAL WP 28.25 oz. ~ 1.76lb. 
Table 3.1 
Propulsion System Individual and Total Weight 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700
Voltage (V)
Endurance (s)
Figure 3.6
Battery Test
20 Amps
15 Amps
7.5 Amps
Name Q (lb/ft2) Thrust (lb.) 
Static Thrust 0 1.0755 
Cruise 6 2.6238 
Maximum 9 3.8175 
Landing 1 1.0251 
Table 3.2 
Wind Tunnel Thrust Test Data 
 
Structures 
 
 
Fig:4.1 Major Load Paths on the aircraft. 
 
Fig: 4.2 V-n Diagram and load factor estimations. 
0
1
2
3
4
5
0 20 40 60 80 100 120
Load Factor  (n)
Flight Speed (Ft/s)
V-n Diagram
 
Fig: 4.3 Bending and shear stress distribution on the spars. 
 
Table 4.1 
 
Fig 4.4 Section properties and deflections on the main and aft spars. 
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
4000
0 10 20 30
Stress (Psi)
Location of the Spar from the center.(Inches)
MainSpar(Bending)
AftSpar(Bending)
MainSpar(Shear)
AftSpar(Shear)
Bending along the span at the maximum load situation. Main SPAR
Section Properties
Material I-Beam Area(sqr in.) Volume Weight MOI(x) MOI(y) Deflection(in)
Spruce b 0.7500 0.3125 16.8750 0.2700 0.0212 0.0043 1.1259
h 0.5000
H 0.7500
t 0.2500
Bending along the span at the maximum load situation. Aft Spar
Section Properties
Material I-Beam Area(sqr in.) Volume Weight MOI(x) MOI(y) Deflection(in)
Spruce b 0.4375 0.1484375 8.015625 0.12825 0.005694 1.0459 58691
Balsa h 0.3125
H 0.5625
t 0.125

 
Figure 4.5 Side view of the Aircraft showing landing gear layout 
Figure 4.6 Front view showing landing gear layout 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Payload 
 
Figure 5.1qpayload layout 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Figure 5.2 Payload Bay Mockup Open 
 
 
Figure 5.3 Payload Bay Mockup Closed 
 
 
 

Project Costs 
 
Figure 7
.1 visual breakdown of total p
 
Department 
Man Hours 
18 hrs/wk=600 hrsx5 members 
Total: 3000 hrs.  
Campus Meetings 
175 Hours  
Comp Usage 
120 hrs./member=600 Hrs. Total  
Manufacturing 
50 Hours  
Laser Cutting 
15 Hrs.  
Structures Lab 
10 Hrs.  
Other Testing 
25 Hrs.  
3x4 Wind Tunnel 
5 Hrs.  
7x10 Wind Tunnel 
3 Hrs.  
Specialized Software 
75 Hrs.  
Total 
Grand Total                       
(With Operating Costs) 
 
Table 7
.1 Breakdown Project Cost Es
Tot
 
total project costs 
Total Cost  
$225,000  
$4,375  
$15,000  
$5,000  
$1,500  
$1,000  
$2,500  
$500  
$1,500  
$37,500  
$293,875  
$440,812.5  
ost Estimates 
Total Cost
Man Hours
Campus Meetings
Comp Usage
Manufacturing
Laser Cutting
Structures Lab
Other Testing
3x4 Wind Tunnel
7x10 Wind Tunnel
 
Figure 7
.2 Breakdown of actual Total 
 
Department 
Man Hours 
18 hrs/wk=604 hrsx5 members 
Total: 3000 hrs.  
Campus Meetings 
172 Hours  
Comp Usage 
149.6 hrs./member=748 Hrs. Total  
Manufacturing 
46 Hours  
Laser Cutting 
2 Hrs.  
Structures Lab 
0 Hrs.  
Other Testing 
2 Hrs.  
3x4 Wind Tunnel 
6 Hrs.  
7x10 Wind Tunnel 
0 Hrs.  
Specialized Software 
78 Hrs.  
Total 
Grand Total                       
(With Operating Costs) 
Table 7.2 Breakdown of Actual Total 
 
 
Tot
 
 Total Project Costs 
Total Cost  
$226,500  
$4,300  
 $18,700  
$4,600  
$200  
$0 
$200  
$600 
$0  
$39,000  
$294,100 
$441,150 
Total Project Costs 
Total Cost
Man Hours
Campus Meetings
Comp Usage
Manufacturing
Laser Cutting
Structures Lab
Other Testing
3x4 Wind Tunnel
7x10 Wind Tunnel
Vehicle Drawings 
 
 
Assembled Front View 
 
 
Assembled Side View 
 

 
Assembled Top View 
 
 
 
Assembled Isometric View 

